President John F. Kennedy
televised address
June 11, 1963

This afternoon, following a series of threats and defiant statements,
the presence of Alabama National Guardsmen was required on the University
of Alabama to carry out the final and unequivocal order of the United States
District Court of the Northern District of Alabama. This order called for
the admission of two clearly qualified young Alabama residents who happen
to have been born Negro.

That they were admitted peacefully on the campus is due in good measure
to the conduct of the students of the University of Alabama, who met their
responsibilities in a constructive way.

I hope that every American, regardless of where he lives, will stop
and examine his conscience about this and other related incidents. This
nation was founded by men of many nations and backgrounds. It was founded
on the principle that all men are created equal, and that the rights of
every man are diminished when the rights of one man are threatened.

Today we are committed to a worldwide struggle to promote and protect
the rights of all who wish to be free. When Americans are sent to Vietnam
or West Berlin, we do not ask for whites only. It ought to be possible,
therefore, for American students of any color to attend any public institution
they select without having to be backed up by troops.

It ought to be possible for American consumers of any color to receive
equal service in places of public accommodation, such as hotels and restaurants
and theaters and retail stores, without being forced to resort to demonstration
in the street. It ought to be possible for American citizens of any color
to register and to vote in a free election without interference or fear
of reprisal.

It ought to be possible, in short, for every American to enjoy the privileges
of being American without regard to his race or his color. In short, every
American ought to have the right to be treated as he would wish to be treated,
as one would wish his children to be treated. But this is not the case
today.

The Negro baby born in America today, regardless of the section of the
nation in which he is born, has about one half as much chance of completing
high school as a white baby born in the same place on the same day, one
third as much chance of completing college, one third as much chance of
becoming a professional man, twice as much chance of becoming unemployed,
about one seventh as much chance of earning $10,000 a year or more, a life
expectancy which is seven years shorter, and the prospects of earning only
half as much.

This is not a sectional issue. Difficulties over segregation and discrimination
exist in every city, in every state of the Union, producing in many cities
a rising tide of discontent that threatens the public safety. Nor is this
a partisan issue. In a time of domestic crisis men of goodwill and generosity
should be able to unite regardless of party or politics. This is not even
a legal or legislative issue alone. It is better to settle these methods
in the courts than on the streets, and new laws are needed at every level,
but law alone cannot make men see right.

We are confronted primarily with a moral issue. It is as old as the
Scriptures and is as clear as the American Constitution.

The heart of the question is whether all Americans are to be afforded
equal rights and equal opportunities, whether we are going to treat our
fellow Americans as we want to be treated. If an American, because his
skin is dark, cannot eat lunch in a restaurant open to the public, if he
can not send his children to the best public school available, if he cannot
vote for the public officials who represent him, if, in short, he cannot
enjoy the full and free life which all of us want, then who among us would
be content to have the color of his skin changed and stand in his place?
Who among us would be content with the counsels of patience and delay?

One hundred years have passed since President Lincoln freed the slaves,
yet their heirs, their grandsons, are not fully free. They are not yet
freed from the bonds of injustice. They are not yet freed from social and
economic oppression. And this nation, for all its hopes and all its boasts,
will not be fully free until all its citizens are free.

We preach freedom around the world, and we mean it, and we cherish our
freedom here at home; but are we to say to the world, and, much more importantly,
to each other, that this is a land of the free except for the Negroes;
that we have no second-class citizens except Negroes; that we have no class
or caste system, no ghettos, no master race, except with respect to Negroes?

Now the time has come for this nation to fulfill its promise. The events
in Birmingham and elsewhere have so increased the cries for equality that
no city or state or legislative body can prudently choose to ignore them.

The fires of frustration and discord are burning in every city, North
and South, where legal remedies are not at hand. Redress is sought in the
streets, in demonstrations, parades, and protests which create tensions
and threaten violence and threaten lives.

We face, therefore, a moral crisis as a country and as a people. It
cannot be met by repressive police action. It cannot be left to increased
demonstrations in the streets. It cannot be quieted by token moves or talk.
It is a time to act in the Congress, in your state and local legislative
bodies and, above all, in all of our daily lives.

It is not enough to pin the blame on others, to say this is a problem
of one section of the country or another, or deplore the facts that we
face. A great change is at hand, and our task, our obligation, is to make
that revolution, that change, peaceful and constructive for all.

Those who do nothing are inviting shame as well as violence. Those who
act boldly are recognizing right as well as reality.

Next week I shall ask the Congress of the United States to act, to make
a commitment it has not fully made in this century to the proposition that
race has no place in American life or law. The federal judiciary has upheld
that proposition in the conduct of its affairs, including the employment
of federal personnel, the use of federal facilities, and the sale of federally
financed housing.

But there are other necessary measures which only the Congress can provide,
and they must be provided at this session. The old code of equity law under
which we live commands for every wrong a remedy, but in too many communities,
in too many parts of the country, wrongs are inflicted on Negro citizens
and there are no remedies at law. Unless the Congress acts, their only
remedy is in the streets.

I am, therefore, asking the Congress to enact legislation giving all
Americans the right to be served in facilities which are open to the public
-- hotels, restaurants, theaters, retail stores, and similar establishments.

This seems to me to be an elementary right. Its denial is an arbitrary
indignity that no American in 1963 should have to endure. But many do.

I have recently met with scores of business leaders urging them to take
voluntary action to end this discrimination, and I have been encouraged
by their response. In the last two weeks over seventy-five cities have
seen progress made in desegregating these kinds of facilities. But many
are unwilling to act alone, and for this reason, nationwide legislation
is needed if we are to move this problem from the streets to the courts.

I am also asking Congress to authorize the federal government to participate
more fully in lawsuits designed to end segregation in public education.
We have succeeded in persuading many districts to desegregate voluntarily.
Dozens have admitted Negroes without violence. Today, a negro is attending
a state-supported institution in every one of our fifty states. But the
pace is very slow.

Too many Negro children entering segregated grade schools at the time
of the Supreme Court's decision nine years ago will enter segregated high
schools this fall, having suffered a loss which can never be restored.
The lack of an adequate education denied the Negro a chance to get a decent
job.

The orderly implementation of the Supreme Court decision, therfore,
cannot be left solely to those who may not have the economic resources
to carry the legal action or who may be subject to harassment.

Other features will also be requested, including greater protection
for the right to vote. But legislation, I repeat, cannot solve this problem
alone. It must be solved in the homes of every American in every community
across our country.

In this respect, I want to pay tribute to those citizens, North and
South, who have been working in their communities to make life better for
all. They are acting not out of a sense of legal duty but out of a sense
of human decency. Like our soldiers and sailors in all parts of the world,
they are meeting freedom's challenge on the firing line, and I salute them
for their honor and courage.

My fellow Americans, this is a problem which faces us all -- in every
city of the North as well as the South. Today there are Negroes, unemployed
-- two or three times as many compared to whites -- with inadequate education,
moving into the large cities, unable to find work, young people particularly
out of work and without hope, denied equal rights, denied the opportunity
to eat at a restaurant or lunch counter or go to a movie theater, denied
the right to a decent education... It seems to me that these are matters
which concern us all, not merely Presidents or congressmen or governors,
but every citizen of the United States.

This is one country. It has become one country because all the people
who came here had an equal chance to develop their talents...

We have a right to expect that the Negro community will be responsible
and will uphold the law; but they have a right to expect that the law will
be fair, that the constitution will be color blind, as Justice Harlan said
at the turn of the century.

This is what we are talking about. This is a matter which concerns this
country and what it stands for, and in meeting it I ask the support of
all our citizens. 


