President John F. Kennedy, Nov. 18, 1961, Los Angeles:
In recent months I have spoken many times about how difficult and dangerous
a period it is through which we now move. I would like to take this opportunity
to say a word about the American spirit in this time of trial.
In the most critical periods of our nation's history, there have always
been those fringes of our society who have sought to escape their own responsibility
by finding a simple solution, an appealing slogan, or a convenient scapegoat.
Financial crises could be explained by the presence of too many immigrants
or too few greenbacks.
War could be attributed to munitions makers or international bankers.
Peace conferences failed because we were duped by the British or tricked
by the French or deceived by the Russians.
It was not the presence of Soviet troops in Eastern Europe that drove
it to communism, it was the sell-out at Yalta. It was not a civil war that
removed China from the free world, it was treason in high places. At times
these fanatics have achieved a temporary success among those who lack the
will or the vision to face unpleasant tasks or unsolved problems.
But in time the basic good sense and stability of the great American
consensus has always prevailed.
Now we are face to face once again with a period of heightened peril.
The risks are great, the burdens heavy, the problems incapable of swift
or lasting solution. And under the strains and frustrations imposed by
constant tension and harassment, the discordant voices of extremism are
heard once again in the land. Men who are unwilling to face up to the danger
from without are convinced that the real danger comes from within. They
look suspiciously at their neighbors and their leaders. They call for a
'man on horseback' because they do not trust the people. They find treason
in our finest churches, in our highest court, and even in the treatment
of our water. They equate the Democratic Party with the welfare state,
the welfare state with socialism, and socialism with communism. They object
quite rightly to politics' intruding on the military -- but they are anxious
for the military to engage in politics.
But you and I and most Americans take a different view of our peril.
We know that it comes from without, not within. It must be met by quiet
preparedness, not provocative speeches.
And the steps taken this year to bolster our defenses--to increase our
missile forces, to put more planes on alert, to provide more airlift and
sealift and ready divisions--to make more certain than ever before that
this nation has all the power it will need to deter any attack of any kind--those
steps constitute the most effective answer that can be made to those who
would sow the seeds of doubt and hate.
So let us not heed these counsels of fear and suspicion. Let us concentrate
more on keeping enemy bombers and missiles away from our shores, and concentrate
less on keeping neighbors away from our shelters. Let us devote more energy
to organize the free and friendly nations of the world, with common trade
and strategic goals, and devote less energy to organizing armed bands of
civilian guerrillas that are more likely to supply local vigilantes than
national vigilance.
Let our patriotism be reflected in the creation of confidence rather
than crusades of suspicion. Let us prove we think our country great by
striving to make it greater. And, above all, let us remember that, however
serious the outlook, the one great irreversible trend in world history
is on the side of liberty--and so, for all time to come, are we. 

Check out some press reaction
to Pres. Kennedy's speech, and subsequent events