Mutual
Security Act, Concerning Conditions on Aid to the French Effort in
Indochina

Mr. KENNEDY: I
arise today to speak on a matter of vital importance to the security of
the United States and the entire free world. It is my firm opinion that
the expenditure and distribution of the funds, equipment, materials, and
service authorized under this bill on behalf of the Associated
States of Cambodia, Laos, and Viet-Nam should be administered in such
a way as to encourage through all available means the freedom and independence
desired by the peoples of the Associated States, including the intensification
of the military training of the Vietnamese.

I say that because
it is my opinion, based upon the evidence of the accords and treaties that
bind the Associated States to the French Union, that genuine independence
as we understand it is lacking in this area--that local government is circumscribed
in its functions--that the Government of Viet-Nam, the state of which is
of the greatest importance in this area, lacks popular support--that the
degree of military, civil, political, and economic control maintained by
the French goes well beyond what is necessary to fight a war. These are
harsh words to say about an ancient friend and ally, France.
They are particularly hard to say because, during a visit to Indochina
over a year ago, I saw something of the burdens that France carries in
that area. The troops she has there are as good as any in the world--certainly
the flower
of her army--and she has maintained the jungle war against numerous
and skillful native armies for a long period. We are well aware, in addition,
that if France were to withdraw her troops today, Communists
would overrun not only French Indochina but southeast Asia. But it
is because we want the war to be brought to a successful conclusion that
we should insist on genuine independence. The war has been going on since
1946. There is evidence that the position of the French is not improving.
Meanwhile the assistance the United States is giving is steadily increasing.
S. 2128 provides $400 million for the procurement of equipment, materials,
and services for the forces in Indochina, nearly $25 million for economic
and technical assistance while the fighting continues, and a classified
amount included under military assistance for the Far East which totals
$1,081,420,493. The total for Indochina alone under all three categories
could well exceed $1 billion.

The New York Times
has stated that we will be paying at least 40 percent of the cost of the
war, and I believe that it will eventually mount up to a great deal more.
Yet regardless of our united effort, it is a truism that the war can never
be successful unless numbers of the people of Viet-Nam are won over from
their sullen neutrality and open hostility to it and fully support its
successful conclusion. This can never be done unless they are reassured
beyond doubt that complete independence will be theirs at the conclusion
of the war. In order to assay the degree of control now possessed by the
French, it is necessary to review briefly the history of recent years.

The French won control
of free Viet-Nam in 1860. It became, particularly in its southern province--Cochin
China--a source of great wealth to the French until the beginning of
the Second World War. During that period of time, France maintained stringent
control over the area: Suffrage and eligibility for office were accorded
only to the French--and the Annamites
could get citizenship only by an act analogous to naturalization. In 1937,
for example, there were only 2,555 naturalized French Annamites.

During World War II,
after the Japanese assumed
control of Indochina, the guerrilla movement against the Japanese in
that area was led by Ho Chi Minh, the present leader of the Vietminh forces
and a man with a long and intimate association with the Communist
movement, but who enjoyed and still enjoys a great prestige among the
people of the area for his unrelenting struggle against their traditional
masters, the French. It has been estimated that in 1944 the military commander
of the guerrilla forces, Vo Nguyen
Giap, now the leader of the Vietminh armies, had over 10,000 men under
his command, which became the nucleus of the later Communist armies.

In March 1945 the Japanese
officially ended the French administration of Indochina. Bao
Dai, the present emperor, proclaimed the independence of Annam by the
consent of the Japanese and eventually gained some degree of control over
the entire country of Viet-Nam,

In August 1945, at
the conclusion of World War II, Ho Chi Minh and his Vietminh supporters
declared the independence
of the democratic Republic of Viet-Nam. Bao Dai abdicated
and became supreme political adviser to Ho
Chi Minh, who was then leading the popular-front movement. Many people
have since argued that Ho Chi Minh was at that time ripe for Titoism
if the French had been willing to grant him sufficient political concessions.
It is difficult to be convinced of this, although it is true that in November
1945 he did dissolve the Indochinese Communist Party and took similar conciliatory
steps to gain the support of a majority of the people. But his record as
a leading and active world Communist figure argues against this theory
of Titoism, and the seizure
of control by the Communists in China at a later date would have placed
him in a most difficult position if he had attempted to break his ties
with Moscow.

At Potsdam
it had been decided, as in Korea, that the surrender of the Japanese troops
north of the 16th parallel would be accepted by the Chinese, south of the
16th parallel by the Southeast Asia Command under Mountbatten
to which was attached a French expeditionary corps which, with the British
troops, took control of southern Viet-Nam at the end of 1945 amid scenes
of violence.

The basis for negotiation
between the French and the Vietminh was laid down in General DeGaulle's
statement of policy of March 24, 1945. In it he provided that the Indochinese
federation, composed of five distinct countries--Cochin China, Annam, Tonkin,
Cambodia, and Laos--was to have an Indochinese government, presided over
by a governor general representing France, and composed of French ministers
and Autochthons
responsible to them. This government was to be assisted by an equally mixed
assembly, so composed that Annamite countries had a maximum percentage
of the seats. The powers of this assembly were to be limited to voting
on the budget, and deliberating law projects prepared by the council of
state. No definition was made of the role to be played by local governments,
except to state vaguely that they would be protected and reformed. These
terms were obviously unsatisfactory to the natives who were desirous of
complete independence, and the negotiations were fruitless.

Finally, on March 6,
1946, an accord
was signed which regulated the relationships between the French and
Ho Chi Minh, an accord which--in spite of Ho Chi Minh's personal prestige--was
greeted with widespread dissatisfaction by the people, for again it fell
far short of their hopes and expectations of independence. Genuine independence
was not promised, nor was the unification of the three provinces of Viet-Nam
achieved.

On June 1, 1946, the
autonomous Republic of Cochin China was proclaimed, but the French High
Commissioner remained in complete control. At Fontainebleau
on July 6 of that year, new negotiations were begun between the French
and Ho Chi Minh. France once again refused to give in to Ho's request that
Viet-Nam be permitted to control its own army, that a time limit be set
on France's use of military bases in the area, that Viet-Nam be permitted
to exchange diplomatic representatives with other countries, that Viet-Nam
have the unlimited right to purchase French enterprises in Viet-Nam, and,
finally, that Cochin China be joined with the remainder of the country.

On September 14, 1946,
Ho Chi Minh signed a Modus Vivendi which further clarified the relationships
between the two countries, but which maintained a heavy and substantial
degree of French control over the internal and external affairs of Viet-Nam.
Ho Chi Minh, recognizing that the Modus Vivendi fell far short of the people's
expectations, said upon signing it,"I have just signed my own death sentence."

Thus, in the fall of
1946, the situation In Viet-Nam continued to deteriorate. Finally, on December
19, 1946, as a result of an outbreak of violence and killing in Hanoi,
the war began which has since continued with increasing fury. Since that
date, the French have been faced with the difficult task of achieving the
fine balance between giving sufficient liberty to the governments they
have supported, in order that these governments might win the devotion
of the people, and, at the same time, maintaining the basic French influence
and control of the area. But concessions which the French have made to
the successive governments have been considerable and if extended to Ho
Chi Minh, or other popular leaders in 1945 and 1946, might have changed
the entire history of that area.

In April 1947, the
Mus mission was sent out as a last attempt to bargain with Ho Chi Minh.
It demanded that the Vietnamese lay down their arms and permit French troops
to circulate freely in Vietnamese territory. Paul
Mus, the French leader of the mission, later described the terms as
a request, for "guaranties equivalent to surrender." Ho's terms continued
the same--the Republic must include Cochin China and must have all other
attributes of independence.

In 1948 a government
of Emperor Bao Dai, who had left Ho Chi Minh in 1946, for China, was set
up under General Xuan. The dilemma remained: This government could gain
popular support only by securing from the French terms which the French
were unwilling to grant Ho; yet it was valuable to the French only if it
did not insist upon obtaining as much as Ho wanted. On June 5, 1948, France
sought a way out of this dilemma by stating that "France solemnly recognizes
the independence of Viet-Nam. The independence of Viet-Nam has no other
limits than those imposed upon it by adherence to the French Union." On
May 21, 1948, the French Assembly voted to end the colonial status of Cochin
China and it was attached to Viet-Nam. This represented a substantial victory
for Bao Dai, and as a result he returned to his country on May 21, 1949.
In January 1950, the accords of March 8, 1949, signalized by letters exchanged
between Bao Dai and President
Auriol of France, were approved by the French Assembly giving Viet-Nam
not only unity but "independence
within the French Union."

Unfortunately, to this
day "independence within the French Union" represents to the majority of
Vietnamese a contradiction in terms. Many Viet-namese have believed that
concessions from the French were gained only as the result of military
victories; that the concessions of 1949 were gained from the French only
as the result of Communist victories in China; and that the concessions
gained at the PAU Economic Conference of November 1950, which I shall mention
in a moment, were gained only as the result of military victories of the
Vietminh in the fall of 1950. These military victories were substantial
and represented a major political and military defeat for the French. Major
concessions by the French were still essential if any degree of support
was to be achieved by the new government; for the Vietnamese people continued
to be discontented, as shown by the statement of Premier Tran Van Huu,
who stated upon returning from France in October 1950:

At the PAU Economic
Conference, on November 27, 1950, the French turned over to Viet-Nam the
control of customs, communications, immigration, and foreign-trade regulations.
In addition, they agreed to the creation of a national army without which
General
LeClerc had earlier declared "there can be no military solution." On
December 8, 1950, a new agreement abrogated the agreement of December 30,
1949, and recognized that the native army would technically come under
the Emperor and not the French, although the training, equipping, and control
was maintained by the French. Further agreements regulating the relationship
between the Associated States and France were reached by the March 8, 1952,
accords, and at the second meeting of the High Council of the French Union
in November 1952.

This compressed history
of the negotiations between France and Viet-Nam, and the negotiations between
France and Laos and Cambodia, differing only in detail, is important in
that it lays the foundation for the modern relationship which governs the
Associated States and France. I have believed that the successive French
grants of limited independence to the people of Viet-Nam have always been
too little and too late. The clearest evidence of this is the success that
the Viet-Minh forces are today achieving, and the painfully slow growth
in popular support which successive governments of Bao Dai have gained
from the people. Unless the people of this area are assured that they are
fighting for their own independence and not for the maintenance of French
control when victory is won, all of our military assistance and all of
the French sacrifices of their youth and treasure will go for naught.

In a letter to me from
the Department of State on May 13, 1953 it was stated:

It is of basic importance,
at a time when we authorize the expenditure of large sums of money so that
the war may be brought to a successful conclusion, that we realize that
conditions are present in the relationship between France and the Associated
States that make it difficult to win the wholehearted support of the natives
in the struggle against the Communists. I strongly believe that the French
cannot succeed in their mission in Indochina without giving concessions
necessary to make the native army a reliable and crusading force.

Senators may have read
recently about the kidnapping of a Viet-Nam Officer Training Corps by a
company of Viet-Minh forces about 2 months ago. The fact is that more than
500 officer candidates were kidnapped, if we can believe the story, by
a company of Viet-Minh rebels. Yet the kidnapped were men upon whom the
French expected to rely for leadership in a native army.

At present the French
control is extensive and paramount. The Associated States, are "independent
within the French Union," although there is no representative body within
Viet-Nam that can ratify the treaty relationships between the two countries.
The organs of the French Union were developed at the conclusion of World
War II to insure the continued dominance of Metropolitan
France over the other countries of the Union. For example, the French
always have a permanent majority in the High Council of the French Union,
the President of France is the President of the Union, and the Government
of France guides its actions. In the assembly of the French Union the control
is again rested in the Government of France, and the Assembly can express
its opinions only on bills submitted to it by the French Assembly or the
governments of the Associated States. Article 62 of the French
Constitution states that-

There are other limitations
upon Viet-Nam independence as a result of their intimate connection with
the French Union. Their foreign policy must be coordinated with that of
France, and the French must give consent to the sending of diplomatic missions
to foreign countries, although that consent is almost automatic.

The French control
over the military situation, including the native armies of Viet-Nam, is
nearly complete. I quote from a recent letter to me from the Department
of State:

The Vietnamese Government
is obliged to turn to the French whenever it desires to secure foreign
counselors and technicians. As the French did not develop experienced governmental
administrators during the period before World War II, this provision has
given the French in the past an opportunity to guide to some degree actions
within the local governments. The University of Viet-Nam was jointly established
with a French rector installed for a 6-year minimum, and all instruction
in the local university must be in French, a move which put the French
directly in contact with the training of the intellectual youth of the
country. The French control over the economic life of the country is extensive,
and the possession of property belonging to the French cannot be changed
without permission of the French. The French still control the country's
basic resources, transportation, and trade. In Viet-Nam the French control
66 percent of the rice export trade; 100 percent of rubber products for
export; practically all export and import businesses, all international
shipping and the principal coastal shipping. In the field of foreign commerce,
it is estimated that French control is nearly 100 percent.

France shares the veto
right under the PAU agreement on matters affecting French Union export
and import trade. French Union subjects are given special legal exemptions.
They are given the privilege of extraterritoriality, and are tried in courts
in which French law prevails. Until peace is restored, the French High
Commissioner will continue to exercise powers with respect to the internal
security of the associated states. After the restoration of peace, the
French will have a liaison mission "charged with guarding the security
of the French Union, in cooperation with the police and sûreté
of Viet-Nam," according to the agreement of December 30, 1949. When Vietnamese
taxes affect French Union subjects, there must be consultation with the
representatives of the countries concerned before they are imposed. The
degree of French control in Viet-Nam is enhanced, as I have said, by the
lack of any popular assembly which represents the will of the people.

Some may feel that
this is an injudicious time to discuss this matter--that many in France
are tired of the war and would gladly see France pull out and retreat to
North Africa. If the French are asked to give up all they have in Indochina,
it is said, will there be anything to hold them there?

I do not believe that
the French are fighting in Indochina wholly for material things. The war
and money alone have already cost them substantially more than their total
capital investment. Men like General De Lattre fought for the honor of
France; and the French now are fighting because they know that if they
retreat, all of Southeast Asia will go to the Communists--that their
position in North Africa will become endangered and that the security
of Metropolitan France itself will be threatened. Thus they fight on, and
deserve our wholehearted support.

But I believe it vital
for the cause for which both of us fight that conditions be established
there that will make it possible for the French to win--that will rally
the support of native elements to take their share of the struggle. Which,
in fact, is more likely to cause the French to withdraw: another season
of fruitless and bloody campaigns, or the prospect of eventual victory,
even though it means the loss of some of the French states in that area?
I do not believe there can be any question as to which is the proper course
to take. I believe that men with responsible positions in France know this
and are moving in that direction. I believe it is of the utmost importance
at a time when the United States is committing itself deeper and deeper
into Indochina, that our influence and prestige with the French be used
to promote the independence and well-being of the people of the Associated
States. If we do so, not only would the prospects of victory be substantially
enhanced, but the position of the United States and France and of the whole
Western alliance in Asia will be materially advanced in Asia.
