WHAT IS A LIBERAL? 
Sen. John F. Kennedy, acceptance of the New York Liberal Party Nomination,
September 14, 1960: 
What do our opponents mean when they apply to us the label "Liberal?"
If by "Liberal" they mean, as they want people to believe, someone
who is soft in his policies abroad, who is against local government, and
who is unconcerned with the taxpayer's dollar, then the record of this
party and its members demonstrate that we are not that kind of "Liberal."
But if by a "Liberal" they mean someone who looks ahead and not
behind, someone who welcomes new ideas without rigid reactions, someone
who cares about the welfare of the people -- their health, their housing,
their schools, their jobs, their civil rights, and their civil liberties
-- someone who believes we can break through the stalemate and suspicions
that grip us in our policies abroad, if that is what they mean by a "Liberal,"
then I'm proud to say I'm a "Liberal."
But first, I would like to say what I understand the word "Liberal"
to mean and explain in the process why I consider myself to be a "Liberal,"
and what it means in the presidential election of 1960.
In short, having set forth my view -- I hope for all time -- two nights
ago in Houston, on the proper relationship between church and state, I
want to take the opportunity to set forth my views on the proper relationship
between the state and the citizen. This is my political credo:
I believe in human dignity as the source of national purpose, in human
liberty as the source of national action, in the human heart as the source
of national compassion, and in the human mind as the source of our invention
and our ideas. It is, I believe, the faith in our fellow citizens as individuals
and as people that lies at the heart of the liberal faith. For liberalism
is not so much a party creed or set of fixed platform promises as it is
an attitude of mind and heart, a faith in man's ability through the experiences
of his reason and judgment to increase for himself and his fellow men the
amount of justice and freedom and brotherhood which all human life deserves.
I believe also in the United States of America, in the promise that
it contains and has contained throughout our history of producing a society
so abundant and creative and so free and responsible that it cannot only
fulfill the aspirations of its citizens, but serve equally well as a beacon
for all mankind. I do not believe in a superstate. I see no magic in tax
dollars which are sent to Washington and then returned. I abhor the waste
and incompetence of large-scale federal bureaucracies in this administration
as well as in others. I do not favor state compulsion when voluntary individual
effort can do the job and do it well. But I believe in a government which
acts, which exercises its full powers and full responsibilities. Government
is an art and a precious obligation; and when it has a job to do, I believe
it should do it. And this requires not only great ends but that we propose
concrete means of achieving them.
Our responsibility is not discharged by announcement of virtuous ends.
Our responsibility is to achieve these objectives with social invention,
with political skill, and executive vigor. I believe for these reasons
that liberalism is our best and only hope in the world today. For the liberal
society is a free society, and it is at the same time and for that reason
a strong society. Its strength is drawn from the will of free people committed
to great ends and peacefully striving to meet them. Only liberalism, in
short, can repair our national power, restore our national purpose, and
liberate our national energies. And the only basic issue in the 1960 campaign
is whether our government will fall in a conservative rut and die there,
or whether we will move ahead in the liberal spirit of daring, of breaking
new ground, of doing in our generation what Woodrow Wilson and Franklin
Roosevelt and Harry Truman and Adlai Stevenson did in their time of influence
and responsibility.
Our liberalism has its roots in our diverse origins. Most of us are
descended from that segment of the American population which was once called
an immigrant minority. Today, along with our children and grandchildren,
we do not feel minor. We feel proud of our origins and we are not second
to any group in our sense of national purpose. For many years New York
represented the new frontier to all those who came from the ends of the
earth to find new opportunity and new freedom, generations of men and women
who fled from the despotism of the czars, the horrors of the Nazis, the
tyranny of hunger, who came here to the new frontier in the State of New
York. These men and women, a living cross section of American history,
indeed, a cross section of the entire world's history of pain and hope,
made of this city not only a new world of opportunity, but a new world
of the spirit as well.
Tonight we salute Governor and Senator Herbert Lehman as a symbol of
that spirit, and as a reminder that the fight for full constitutional rights
for all Americans is a fight that must be carried on in 1961.
Many of these same immigrant families produced the pioneers and builders
of the American labor movement. They are the men who sweated in our shops,
who struggled to create a union, and who were driven by longing for education
for their children and for the children's development. They went to night
schools; they built their own future, their union's future, and their country's
future, brick by brick, block by block, neighborhood by neighborhood, and
now in their children's time, suburb by suburb.
Tonight we salute George Meany as a symbol of that struggle and as a
reminder that the fight to eliminate poverty and human exploitation is
a fight that goes on in our day. But in 1960 the cause of liberalism cannot
content itself with carrying on the fight for human justice and economic
liberalism here at home. For here and around the world the fear of war
hangs over us every morning and every night. It lies, expressed or silent,
in the minds of every American. We cannot banish it by repeating that we
are economically first or that we are militarily first, for saying so doesn't
make it so. More will be needed than goodwill missions or talking back
to Soviet politicians or increasing the tempo of the arms race. More will
be needed than good intentions, for we know where that paving leads.
In Winston Churchill's words, "We cannot escape our dangers by
recoiling from them. We dare not pretend such dangers do not exist."
And tonight we salute Adlai Stevenson as an eloquent spokesman for the
effort to achieve an intelligent foreign policy. Our opponents would like
the people to believe that in a time of danger it would be hazardous to
change the administration that has brought us to this time of danger. I
think it would be hazardous not to change. I think it would be hazardous
to continue four more years of stagnation and indifference here at home
and abroad, of starving the underpinnings of our national power, including
not only our defense but our image abroad as a friend.
This is an important election -- in many ways as important as any this
century -- and I think that the Democratic Party and the Liberal Party
here in New York, and those who believe in progress all over the United
States, should be associated with us in this great effort. The reason that
Woodrow Wilson and Franklin Roosevelt and Harry Truman and Adlai Stevenson
had influence abroad, and the United States in their time had it, was because
they moved this country here at home, because they stood for something
here in the United States, for expanding the benefits of our society to
our own people, and the people around the world looked to us as a symbol
of hope.
I think it is our task to re-create the same atmosphere in our own time.
Our national elections have often proved to be the turning point in the
course of our country. I am proposing that 1960 be another turning point
in the history of the great Republic.
Some pundits are saying it's 1928 all over again. I say it's 1932 all
over again. I say this is the great opportunity that we will have in our
time to move our people and this country and the people of the free world
beyond the new frontiers of the 1960s.

