Senator John F. Kennedy, US Senate


Mr. President, the time has come for the American people
to be told the blunt truth about Indochina.


I am reluctant to make any statement which may be misinterpreted
as unappreciative of the gallant French struggle at Dien Bien Phu and elsewhere;
or as partisan criticism of our Secretary of State just prior to his participation
in the delicate deliberations in Geneva. Nor, as one who is not a member
of those committees of the Congress which have been briefed--if not consulted--on
this matter, do I wish to appear impetuous or alarmist in my evaluation
of the situation.


But the speeches of President Eisenhower, Secretary Dulles,
and others have left too much unsaid, in my opinion--and what has been
left unsaid is the heart of the problem that should concern every citizen.
For if the American people are, for the fourth time in this century, to
travel the long and tortuous road of war particularly a war which we now
realize would threaten the survival of civilization, then I believe we
have a right--a right which we should have hitherto exercised--to inquire
in detail into the nature of the struggle in which we may become engaged,
and the alternative to such struggle. Without such clarification the general
support and success of our policy is endangered. Inasmuch as Secretary
Dulles has rejected, with finality, any suggestion of bargaining on Indochina
in exchange for recognition of Red China, those discussions in Geneva which
concern that war may center around two basic alternatives:


The first is a negotiated peace, based either upon partition
of the area between the forces of the Viet Minh and the French Union, possibly
along the 16th parallel; or based upon a coalition government in which
Ho Chi Minh is represented. Despite any wishful thinking to the contrary,
it would be apparent that the popularity and prevalence of Ho Chi Minh
and his following throughout Indochina would cause either partition or
a coalition government to result in eventual domination by the Communists.


The second alternative is for the United States to persuade
the French to continue their valiant and costly struggle; an alternative
which, considering the current state of opinion in France, will be adopted
only if the United States pledges increasing support. Secretary Dulles'
statement that the "imposition in southeast Asia of the political system
of Communist Russia and its Chinese Communist ally . . . should be met
by united action" indicates that it is our policy to give such support,
that we will, as observed by the New York Times last Wednesday, "fight
if necessary to keep southeast Asia out of their hands"; and that we hope
to win the support of the free countries of Asia for united action against
communism in Indochina, in spite of the fact that such nations have pursued
since the war's inception a policy of cold neutrality.


I think it is important that the Senate and the American
people demonstrate their endorsement of Mr. Dulles' objectives despite
our difficulty in ascertaining the full significance of its key phrases.


Certainly, I, for one, favor a policy of a "united action"
by many nations whenever necessary to achieve a military and political
victory for the free world in that area, realizing full well that it may
eventually require some commitment of our manpower.


But to pour money, materiel, and men into the jungles
of Indochina without at least a remote prospect of victory would be dangerously
futile and self-destructive. Of course, all discussion of "united action"
assumes the inevitability of such victory; but such assumptions are not
unlike similar predictions of confidence which have lulled the American
people for many years and which, if continued, would present an improper
basis for determining the extent of American participation.


Permit me to review briefly some of the statements concerning
the progress of the war in that area, and it will be understood why I say
that either we have not frankly and fully faced the seriousness of the
military situation, or our intelligence estimates and those of the French
have been woefully defective.


In February of 1951, for example, the late Brig. Gen.
Francis G. Brink, then head of the United States Military Advisory Group
in Indochina, told us of the favorable turn of events in that area as a
result of new tactics designed by Gen. Jean de Lattre de Tassigny. In the
fall of that same year, General De Lattre himself voiced optimism in his
speech before the National Press Club here in Washington, and predicted
victory, under certain conditions, in 18 months to 2 years, during his
visit to France.


In June of 1952, American and French officials issued
a joint communique in Washington expressing the two countries' joint determination
to bring the battle to a successful end; and Secretary of State Acheson
stated at his press conference that--

In May of 1953, President Eisenhower and Secretary of
State Dulles told the Congress that our mutual-security program for France,
and Indochina, would help "reduce this Communist pressure to manageable
proportions." In June an American military mission headed by General O'Daniel
was sent to discuss with General Navarre in Indochina the manner in which
United States aid "may best contribute to the advancement of the objective
of defeating the Communist forces there"; and in the fall of last year
General O'Daniel stated that he was "confident that the French-trained
Vietnam Army when fully organized would prevail over the rebels."


In September of 1953, French and American officials again
conferred, and, in announcing a new program of extensive American aid,
again issued a communique restating the objective of "an early and victorious
conclusion."


On December 2, 1953, Assistant Secretary of State for
Far Eastern Affairs Walter S. Robertson told the Women's National Republican
Club in New York--in words almost identical with those of Secretary of
State Acheson 18 months earlier--that "In Indochina . . . we believe the
tide now is turning." Later the same month Secretary of State Dulles stated
that military setbacks in the area had been exaggerated; and that he did
not "believe that anything that has happened upsets appreciably the timetable
of General Navarre's plan," which anticipated decisive military results
by about March 1955.


In February of this year, Defense Secretary Wilson said
that a French victory was "both possible and probable" and that the war
was going "fully as well as we expected it to at this stage. I see no reason
to think Indochina would be another Korea." Also in February of this year,
Under Secretary of State Smith stated that:

Despite this series of optimistic reports about eventual
victory, every member of the Senate knows that such victory today appears
to be desperately remote, to say the least, despite tremendous amounts
of economic and materiel aid from the United States, and despite a deplorable
loss of French Union manpower. The call for either negotiations or additional
participation by other nations underscores the remoteness of such a final
victory today, regardless of the outcome at Dien Bien Phu. It is, of course,
for these reasons that many French are reluctant to continue the struggle
without greater assistance; for to record the sapping effect which time
and the enemy have had on their will and strength in that area is not to
disparage their valor. If "united action" can achieve the necessary victory
over the forces of communism, and thus preserve the security and freedom
of all Southeast Asia, then such united action is clearly called for. But
if, on the other hand, the increase in our aid and the utilization of our
troops would only result in further statements of confidence without ultimate
victory over aggression, then now is the time when we must evaluate the
conditions under which that pledge is made.


I am frankly of the belief that no amount of American
military assistance in Indochina can conquer an enemy which is everywhere
and at the same time nowhere, "an enemy of the people" which has the sympathy
and covert support of the people. As succinctly stated by the report of
the Judd Subcommittee of the House Foreign Affairs Committee in January
of this year:

This is not a new point, of course. In November of 1951,
I reported upon my return from the Far East as follows:

It is true that only 2 days later on July 3 the French
Government issued a statement agreeing that--

I do not wish to weary the Senate with long recital of
the proceedings of the negotiations, except to say that as of today they
have brought no important change in the treaty relationships between Vietnam
and the French Republic. Today the talks appear to be at an impasse; and
the return from Paris to Saigon of the Premier of Vietnam, Prince Buu Loc,
is not a happy augury for their success. Thus the degree of control which
the French retain in the area is approximately the same as I outlined last
year:


Politically, French control was and is extensive and paramount.
There is no popular assembly in Vietnam which represents the will of the
people that can ratify the treaty relationship between Vietnam and the
French. Although the Associated States are said to be "independent within
the French Union," the French always have a permanent control in the high
council and in the Assembly of the Union and the Government of France guides
its actions. Under article 62 of the French Constitution, the French Government
"coordinates" all the resources of the members of the Union placed in common
to guarantee its defense, under policies directed and prepared by the French
Government. French Union subjects are given special legal exemptions, including
the privilege of extraterritoriality. The French High Commissioner continues
to exercise powers with respect to the internal security of the Associated
States, and will have a similar mission even after the restoration of peace.
When Vietnamese taxes affect French Union subjects, there must be consultation
with the representatives of the countries concerned before they are imposed.
The foreign-policy of Vietnam must be coordinated with that of France,
and the French must give consent to the sending of diplomatic missions
to foreign countries. Inasmuch as the French did not develop experienced
governmental administrators before World War II, they have guided to some
degree actions within the local governments by requiring the Vietnamese
Government to turn to them for foreign counselors and technicians.


Militarily, French control is nearly complete. The United
States has in the past dealt primarily with the French military authority,
and these in turn deal with the Associated States. Our equipment and aid
is turned over to the French who will then arrange for its distribution
according to their decision. The French are granted for a period of time
without limit facilities for bases and garrisons.


Culturally, the French are directly in contact with the
training of intellectual youths of Vietnam, inasmuch as France joined in
the establishment of the university, installed a French rector, and provided
that all instructions should be in French.


Economically, French control of the country's basic resources,
transportation, trade, and economic life in general is extensive. In Vietnam,
estimated French control is nearly 100 percent in the field of foreign
commerce, international and coastal shipping, and rubber and other export
products. The French control 66 percent of the rice export, trade. Moreover,
possession of property belonging to the French cannot be changed without
permission of the French; and France shares the veto right under the PAU
agreement on matters affecting France's export and import trade.


All of this flies in the face of repeated assurances to
the American people by our own officials that complete independence has
been or will be granted.


In February of 1951, for example, the American Minister
to the Associated States, Donald Heath, told us that the French colonial
regime had ended and that "all Indochinese Government services were turned
over to the Indochinese States." This is untrue. In November of 1951, Assistant
Secretary of State Dean Rusk again assured us that--

I do not believe that the importance of the current breakdown
of these negotiations has been made clear to the Senate or the People of
the United States. Every year we are given three sets of assurances: First,
that the independence of the Associated States is now complete; second,
that the independence of the Associated States will soon be completed under
steps "now" being undertaken; and, third, that military victory for the
French Union forces in Indochina is assured, or is just around the corner,
or lies two years off. But the stringent limitations upon the status of
the Associated States as sovereign states remain; and the fact that military
victory has not yet been achieved is largely the result of these limitations.
Repeated failure of these prophecies has, however, in no way diminished
the frequency of their reiteration, and they have caused this nation to
delay definitive action until now the opportunity for any desirable solution
may well be past.


It is time, therefore, for us to face the stark reality
of the difficult situation before us without the false hopes which predictions
of military victory and assurances of complete independence have given
us in the past. The hard truth of the matter is, first, that without the
wholehearted support of the peoples of the Associated States, without a
reliable and crusading native army with a dependable officer corps, a military
victory, even with American support, in that area is difficult if not impossible,
of achievement; and, second, that the support of the people of that area
cannot be obtained without a change in the contractual relationships which
presently exist between the Associated States and the French Union.


Instead of approaching a solution to this problem, as
Secretary Dulles indicated, French and Vietnamese officials appear to be
receding from it. The Vietnamese, whose own representatives lack full popular
support, because of a lack of popular assembly in that country, recognizing
that French opinion favoring a military withdrawal would become overwhelming
if all ties were entirely broken, have sought 2 treaties: one giving the
Vietnamese complete and genuine independence, and the other maintaining
a tie with the French Union on the basis of equality, as in the British
commonwealth. But 9 months of negotiations have failed thus far to provide
a formula for both independence and union which is acceptable to the parties
currently in the government of each nation. The French Assembly on March
9--and I believe this action did not receive the attention it deserved--substantially
lessened the chances of such a solution, though the adoption of a tremendously
far-reaching rider which declared that France would consider her obligations
toward Indochinese states ended if they should revoke the clauses in the
French Constitution that bind them to the French Union. In other words,
Mr. President, the French Parliament indicated that France would no longer
have any obligations toward the Associated States if the present ties which
bind them to the French Union--ties which assure, because of the constitutional
arrangement of the French Union, that the French Republic and its Government
are always the dominant power in the union--were broken.


I realize that Secretary Dulles cannot force the French
to adopt any course of action to which they are opposed; nor am I unaware
of the likelihood of a French military withdrawal from Indochina, once
its political and economic stake in that area is gone. But we must realize
that the difficulties in the military situation which would result from
French withdrawal would not be greatly different from the difficulties
which would prevail after the intervention of American troops without the
support of the Indochinese or the other nations of Asia. The situation
might be compared to what the situation would have been In Korea, if the
Japanese had maintained possession of Korea, if a Communist group of Koreans
were carrying on a war there with Japan--which had dominated that area
for more than a century--and if we then went to the assistance of the Japanese,
and put down the revolution of the native Koreans, even though they were
Communists, and even though in taking that action we could not have the
support of the non-Communist elements of the country.


That is the type of situation, whether we like it or not,
which is presented today in connection with our support of the French in
Indochina, without the support of the native peoples of Indochina.


In Indochina, as in Korea, the battle against communism
should be a battle, not for economic or political gain, but for the security
of the free world, and for the values and institutions which are held dear--in
France and throughout the non-Communist world, as well as in the United
States. It seems to me, therefore, that the dilemma which confronts us
is not a hopeless one; that a victorious fight can be maintained by the
French, with the support of this Nation and many other nations--and most
important of all, the support of the Vietnamese and other peoples of the
Associated States--once it is recognized that the defense of southeast
Asia and the repelling of Communist aggression are the objectives of such
a struggle, and not the maintenance of political relationships founded
upon ancient colonialism. In such a struggle, the United States and other
nations may properly be called upon to play their fullest part.


If, however, this is not to be the nature of the war;
if the French persist in their refusal to grant the legitimate independence
and freedom desired by the peoples of the Associated States; and if those
peoples and the other peoples of Asia remain aloof from the conflict, as
they, have in the past, then it is my hope that Secretary Dulles, before
pledging our assistance at Geneva, will recognize the futility of channeling
American men and machines into that hopeless internecine struggle.


The facts and alternatives before us are unpleasant, Mr.
President. But in a nation such as ours, it is only through the fullest
and frankest appreciation of such facts and alternatives that any foreign
policy can be effectively maintained. In an era of supersonic attack and
atomic retaliation, extended public debate and education are of no avail,
once such a policy must be implemented. The time to study, to doubt, to
review, and revise is now, for upon our decisions now may well rest the
peace and security of the world, and, indeed, the very continued existence
of mankind. And if we cannot entrust this decision to the people, then,
as Thomas Jefferson once said: "If we think them not enlightened enough
to exercise their control with a wholesome discretion, the remedy is not
to take it from them but to inform their discretion by education."
